releases: add tidb 4.0.16 release notes (#7119)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-4.0.16.md

    - Fix an issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values. [#26902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26902)
    - Fix copt-cache metrics, it will display the number of hits/miss/evict on Grafana now. [#26342](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26342)
    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL. [#26237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26237)

+ TiKV

    - Fix panic in rare conditions when merge, conf change and snapshot happen at the same time [#11509](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11509)
    - Make negative sign as false when decimal divide result is zero [#11332](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11332)
    - Fix incorrect by-instance gRPC average duration. [#11326](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11326)
    - Fix CDC panic due to missing downstream. [#11135](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11135)
    - Fix channel full could break the raft connection [#11069](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11069)
    - Fix Max/Min bug when comparing signed and unsigned int64 [#10616](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10616)

>     -  Fix frequent CDC incremental scan retry due to `Congest` error. [#11089](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11089)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix frequent CDC incremental scan retry due to `Congest` error. [#11089](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11089)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release Date: December 10, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

## Compatibility changes

+ TiKV

>     - When casting invalid utf8 string to real, try to truncate the utf8 prefix instead of returning error [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - When casting invalid utf8 string to real, try to truncate the utf8 prefix instead of returning an error [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release Date: December 10, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

## Compatibility changes

+ TiKV

    - When casting invalid utf8 string to real, try to truncate the utf8 prefix instead of returning error [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)

+ Tools

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ Tools

```

    + TiCDC

>         - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `max-message-bytes` to 1MB [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `max-message-bytes` to 1 MB [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)
```

> 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

+ Tools
       + TiCDC
              - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB [#3002](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3002)
              - Change Kafka default `partition-num` to 3. [#3565](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3565)
```

## Improvements

+ TiKV

    - Reduce the disk space usage by using the zstd algorithm to compress SST files when using Backup & Restore to restore data or using TiDB Lightning's Local-backend [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Improve the robustness for restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Improve the robustness of restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421)
```

    + TiCDC

        - Add rate limiter to limit EtcdWorker tick frequency [#3267](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3267)
        - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads and fix the congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization phase [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

>         - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB [#3002](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3002)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

>         - Add a Tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent Etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ Grafana

    - Upgrade to v7.5.11 to avoid security vulnerabilities of earlier versions

```

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the query panic caused by overflow in the statistics module when converting a range to points for cost estimation [#23625](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23625)
    - Fix wrong results of the control functions (such as `IF` and `CASE WHEN`) when using the `ENUM` type data as parameters of such functions [#23114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23114)

>     - Fix inconsistent results of the `GREATEST` function when setting `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` to `on` or `off` [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)

Reviewer 3: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/89768198/145393766-991f1015-ca85-47d5-b9bd-792e4f365819.png)
看起来，应该是说修复了打开和关闭 `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression`时显示结果不一致的问题。

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (`on` or `off`)
```

    - Fix the panic when applying index join on prefix indexes in some cases [#24547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24547)
    - Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    - Fix a bug that TiDB cannot insert `null` into a non-null column when `sql_mode` is empty [#11648](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/11648)
    - Fix the wrong result type of the `GREATEST` and`LEAST` functions [#29019](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29019)

>     - Fix the `privilege check fail` error when performing the `grant` and `revoke` operations to grant global level privileges [#29675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29675)

Reviewer 3: revoke 操作应该是撤销权限，不是 grant 权限吧。

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `privilege check fail` error when performing the `grant` and `revoke` operations to grant or revoke global level privileges [#29675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29675)
```

    - Fix an issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
    - Fix the issue that the Coprocessor Cache panel in Grafana does not display metrics. Now, Grafana displays the number of `hits`/`miss`/`evict`. [#26338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26338)
    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL [#26229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26229)
    - Fix the issue that when the `CONCAT` function has a negative float type argument, the last digit of the argument number is chopped in the result  [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    - Fix the issue of an extra column in the query result when `NATURAL JOIN` is used to join multiple tables [#29481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
    - Fix the issue that `TopN` is wrongly pushed down to `indexPlan` when `IndexScan` is using a prefix index [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
    - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with `DOUBLE` type auto-increment columns causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)

> + TiKV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

+ TiKV
```

> + TiKV
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

+ TiKV

```

>     - (dup) Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
>     - Fix the issue that optimistic transaction conflicts might cause transactions blocking each other [#11148](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11148)
>     - Fix the issue of incomplete log information from the `auto analyz` result [#29188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29188)
>     - Fix an issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
>     - Fix the issue that the Coprocessor Cache panel in Grafana does not display metrics. Now, Grafana displays the number of `hits`/`miss`/`evict`. [#26338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26338)
>     - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL [#26229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26229)
>     - Fix the issue that when the `CONCAT` function has a negative float type argument, the last digit of the argument number is chopped in the result  [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
>     - Fix the issue of an extra column in the query result when `NATURAL JOIN` is used to join multiple tables [#29481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
>     - Fix the issue that `TopN` is wrongly pushed down to `indexPlan` when `IndexScan` is using a prefix index [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
>     - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with `DOUBLE` type auto-increment columns causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    - Fix the issue that optimistic transaction conflicts might cause transactions to block each other [#11148](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11148)
    - Fix the issue of incomplete log information from the `auto analyz` result [#29188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29188)
    - Fix the issue that using an invalid default date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'NO_ZERO_IN_DATE' [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
    - Fix the issue that the metrics on the **Coprocessor Cache** panel in Grafana are wrong. Now, Grafana displays the number of `hits`/`miss`/`evict` [#26338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26338)
    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition causes DDL statements to stuck [#26229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26229)
    - Fix the issue that when the `CONCAT` function has a negative float type argument, the last digit of the argument number is chopped in the result  [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    - Fix the issue of an extra column in the query result when `NATURAL JOIN` is used to join multiple tables [#29481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
    - Fix the issue that `TopN` is wrongly pushed down to `indexPlan` when `IndexScan` uses a prefix index [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
    - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with the auto-increment columns of  `DOUBLE` type causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
```

    - Fix incorrect by-instance gRPC average duration [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)
    - Fix CDC panic due to missing downstream [#11123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11123)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the Raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)
    - Fix Max/Min bug when comparing signed and unsigned int64 [#10158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10158)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)

+ PD

    - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    - (dup) Fix slow leader election caused by stucked region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)

>     - (dup) Fix the issue that evict-leader might leave leaders when the cluster has down peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Support that the evict leader scheduler can schedule regions with unhealthy peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)
```

    - (dup) Fix slow leader election caused by stucked region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that evict-leader might leave leaders when the cluster has down peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`
>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up on some platforms due to the absence of library `nsl`
```

Reviewer 3: There is a similar bug fix in 5.3.0 release notes: Fix the possible Can't compare error when comparing Decimal types. Are they the same?

+ Tools

>     + TiDB Binlog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    
    + TiDB Binlog
```

        
        - Fix the bug that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#1078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/pull/1078)

>     + TiCDC

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ Tools

    + TiDB Binlog
        
        - Fix the bug that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#1078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/pull/1078)

    + TiCDC
```

>     + TiCDC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    
    + TiCDC
```

>         - Fix the bug that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#1078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/pull/1078)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Fix the bug that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#28659](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28659)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release Date: December 10, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

## Compatibility changes

+ TiKV

>     - When casting an invalid utf8 string to real, try to truncate the utf8 prefix instead of returning an error [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)

Reviewer: @en-jin19 Please translate “在 v4.0.16 以前，当把一个非法的 UTF-8 字符串转换为 Real 类型时会直接报错。自 v4.0.16 起，TiDB 会依照该字符串中的合法 UTF-8 前缀进行转换”. Thanks~

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Before v4.0.16, when TiDB converts an illegal UTF-8 string to a Real type, an error is reported directly. Starting from v4.0.16, TiDB processes the conversion according to the legal UTF-8 prefix in the string [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)
```

+ Tools

>     + TiDB Binlog
> 
>         - Drainer: Fix the Kafka message limit problem [#1078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/pull/1078)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

>         - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `max-message-bytes` to 1 MB [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `max-message-bytes` to 1 MB to prevent sending too large messages to Kafka clusters [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)
```

>         - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 to distribute messages more evenly across Kafka partitions [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)
```

## Improvements

+ TiKV

    - sst_importer: Reduce the space usage when using BR-Restore or Lightning-Local-backend by using zstd compression in SSTs  [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Improve the robustness for restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421)

    + TiCDC

>         - Add a rate limiter to limit the EtcdWorker tick frequency [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Add a Tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent pd's Etcd writes from affecting pd services too many times [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
```

>         - Optimize rate limit control when TiKV reloads. Fix congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to solve the gPRC congestion problem on changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)
```

>         - Ignore the global flag of the changefeed update command [#2803](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2803)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

>         - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3352)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix incorrect by-instance gRPC average duration [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)
    - Fix CDC panic due to missing downstream [#11123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11123)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the Raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)
    - Fix Max/Min bug when comparing signed and unsigned int64 [#10158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10158)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)

+ PD

    - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
    - (dup) Fix slow leader election caused by stucked region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that evict-leader might leave leaders when the cluster has down peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl`

+ Tools

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    + TiDB Binlog
        
        - Fix the bug that Drainer exits when transporting a transaction greater than 1 GB [#1078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/pull/1078)
```

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3010)
        - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1798)
        - Fix the TiCDC replication interruption issue when multiple TiKVs crash or during a forced restart [#3288](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3288)
        - Fix the memory leak issue after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3174)
        - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3061)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2386)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)

>         - Fix the issue that tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keeps restarting when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that `tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m` keeps alerting when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)
```

        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2978)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that some partitioned tables without valid indexes might be ignored when `force-replicate` is enabled [#2834](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2834)
        - Fix the memory leak issue when creating a new changefeed [#2389](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2389)

>         - Fix the issue that Sink skips the flush operation when reporting resolved ts [#3503](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3503)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that may cause inconsistent data due to Sink components advancing resolved ts early [#3503](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3503)
```

>         - Fix the issue that Sink skips the flush operation when reporting resolved ts[#3503](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3503)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Sink skips the flush operation when reporting resolved ts [#3503](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3503)
```

>         - (dup) Fix the issue that scanning stock data might fail due to TiKV performing GC when scanning stock data takes too long [#2470](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2470)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - (dup) Fix the issue that scanning stock data might fail due to TiKV performing GC when scanning stock data takes too long [#2470](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2470)
        - Fix the issue that the changefeed update command does not recognize global command line parameters [#2803](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2803)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release Date: December 10, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

## Compatibility changes

+ TiKV

    - When casting an invalid utf8 string to real, try to truncate the utf8 prefix instead of returning an error [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `max-message-bytes` to 1 MB [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)
        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)

## Improvements

+ TiKV

>     - sst_importer: Reduce the space usage when using BR-Restore or Lightning-Local-backend by using zstd compression in SSTs  [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Reduce the disk space usage by using the zstd algorithm to compress SST files when using Backup & Restore to restore data or using TiDB Lightning's Local-backend [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)
```

+ TiKV

    - sst_importer: Reduce the space usage when using BR-Restore or Lightning-Local-backend by using zstd compression in SSTs  [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Improve the robustness for restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421)

    + TiCDC

        - Add a rate limiter to limit the EtcdWorker tick frequency [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
        - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads. Fix the congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization phase [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)
        - Ignore the global flag for the changefeed update command [#2803](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2803)
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3352)

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Fix a query panic caused by overflow in statistics module when calculating selectivity and converting a range to points for cost estimation [#23625](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23625)
>     - Fix wrong result for control function (`if`, `case when`, etc) with enum type [#23114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23114)
>     - Fix different results for function `greatest` when vectorized is off [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
>     - Fix index join panic on prefix index on some cases [#24547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24547)
>     - (dup) Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the query panic caused by overflow in the statistics module when converting a range to points for cost estimation [#23625](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23625)
    - Fix wrong results of the control functions (such as `IF` and `CASE WHEN`) when using the `ENUM` type data as parameters of such functions [#23114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23114)
    - Fix inconsistent results of the `GREATEST` function when setting `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` to `on` or `off` [#29434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29434)
    - Fix the index join panic on prefix index in some cases [#24547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24547)
    - Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
```

    - Fix a bug that TiDB can not insert null into a not null column when `sql_mode` is empty [#11648](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/11648)
    - Fix wrong result type for function `greatest`/`least` [#29019](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29019)
    - Fix privilege checking for `grant` and `revoke` operation on global level privileges [#29675](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29675)
    - Fix panic for `case when` function with enum type [#29357](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29357)
    - Fix wrong result of `microsecond` function in vectorized expression [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)

>     - (dup) Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
>     - Prevent conflicted optimistic transactions from locking each other [#11148](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11148)
>     - Fix incomplete log information about auto analyze [#29188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29188)
>     - Fix an issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
>     - Fix copt-cache metrics, it will display the number of hits/miss/evict on Grafana now [#26338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26338)
>     - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL [#26229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26229)
>     - expression: fix wrong flen when cast decimal to string. [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
>     - planner: change redundantSchema to fullSchema to correctly handle natural and "using" joins. [#29481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
>     - planner: fix topn wrongly pushed to index scan side when it's a prefix index [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
>     - insert: fix the auto id retry won't cast the datum to origin type. [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - (dup) Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    - Fix the issue that optimistic transaction conflicts might cause transactions blocking each other [#11148](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11148)
    - Fix the issue of incomplete log information from the `auto analyz` result [#29188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29188)
    - Fix an issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
    - Fix the issue that the Coprocessor Cache panel in Grafana does not display metrics. Now, Grafana displays the number of `hits`/`miss`/`evict`. [#26338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26338)
    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL [#26229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26229)
    - Fix the issue that when the `CONCAT` function has a negative float type argument, the last digit of the argument number is chopped in the result  [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    - Fix the issue of an extra column in the query result when `NATURAL JOIN` is used to join multiple tables [#29481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
    - Fix the issue that `TopN` is wrongly pushed down to `indexPlan` when `IndexScan` is using a prefix index [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
    - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with `DOUBLE` type auto-increment columns causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
```

>     - Fix panic in rare conditions when merge, conf change and snapshot happen at the same time [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs when Region merge, configuration change and snapshot happen at the same time in extreme conditions [#11475](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11475)
```

>     - Make negative sign as false when decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue of negative sign when the decimal divide result is zero [#29586](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29586)
```

    - Fix incorrect by-instance gRPC average duration [#11299](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11299)
    - Fix CDC panic due to missing downstream [#11123](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11123)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that the Raft connection is broken when the channel is full [#11047](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11047)

>     - Fix Max/Min bug when comparing signed and unsigned int64 [#10158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10158)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB cannot correctly identify whether the `Int64` type is a signed integer or not, which causes the wrong calculation result of `Max`/`Min` [#10158](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/10158)
```

    - (dup) Fix the issue that CDC adds scan retries frequently due to the Congest error [#11082](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11082)

+ PD

>     - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix a panic issue that occurs after the TiKV node is removed [#4344](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4344)
```

    - (dup) Fix slow leader election caused by stucked region syncer [#3936](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/3936)
    - (dup) Fix the issue that evict-leader might leave leaders when the cluster has down peers [#4093](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/4093)

+ TiFlash

>     - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

>     - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up on some platforms due to the absence of library `nsl`

Reviewer 3: TiFlash is not an open-source repo. Therefore, we do not add PRs for notes.

>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up on some platforms due to the absence of library `nsl`

Reviewer 8: got it.

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl`

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

>         - Fix changefeed checkpoint lag negative value error [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3010)
>         - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1798)
>         - Fix TiCDC could meet replication interruption when multiple TiKVs crash or forcing restart [#3288](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3288)
>         - Fix memory leak after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3174)
>         - Fix changefeed does not fast fail when occur ErrGCTTLExceeded error [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the negative value error in the changefeed checkpoint lag [#3010](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3010)
        - Fix OOM in container environments [#1798](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/1798)
        - Fix the TiCDC replication interruption issue when multiple TiKVs crash or during a forced restart [#3288](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3288)
        - Fix the memory leak issue after processing DDLs [#3174](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3174)
        - Fix the issue that changefeed does not fail fast enough when the ErrGCTTLExceeded error occurs [#3111](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3111)
```

        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3061)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2386)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)

>         - Fix tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keep firing when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keeps restarting when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)
```

        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2978)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that some partitioned tables without valid indexes might be ignored when `force-replicate` is enabled [#2834](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2834)

>         - Fix memory leak which may happen in create new changefeed [#2389](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2389)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the memory leak issue when creating a new changefeed [#2389](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2389)
```

>         - processor,sink(cdc): let sink report resolved ts and do not skip buffer sink flush [#3503](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3503)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that Sink skips the flush operation when reporting resolved ts[#3503](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3503)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release Date: December 10, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

## Compatibility changes

+ TiKV

    - When casting invalid utf8 string to real, try to truncate the utf8 prefix instead of returning error [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)

+ Tools

> 
>     + TiCDC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    + TiCDC
```

        - drainer: fix kafka message limit problem [#1078](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-binlog/pull/1078)

+ Tools
       + TiCDC
              - Change Kafka Sink default `max-message-bytes` to 1MB [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)
              - Change Kafka Sink default `partition-num` to 3. [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)
## Improvements

+ TiKV

    - sst_importer: Reduce the space usage when using BR-Restore or Lightning-Local-backend by using zstd compression in SSTs  [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Increase the robustness for restoring [#1445](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1445)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Increase the robustness for restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421))
```

        - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

> + Grafana

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion

+ Grafana
```

        - Add rate limiter to limit EtcdWorker tick frequency [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
        - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads and fix the congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization phase [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)
        - Ignore the global flag for changefeed update command [#2803](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2803)

>         - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2601](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2601)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#3352](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3352)
```

    - Fix an issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
    - Fix the issue that the Coprocessor Cache panel in Grafana does not display metrics. Now, Grafana displays the number of `hits`/`miss`/`evict`. [#26338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26338)
    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL [#26229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26229)
    - Fix the issue that when the `CONCAT` function has a negative float type argument, the last digit of the argument number is chopped in the result  [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
    - Fix the issue of an extra column in the query result when `NATURAL JOIN` is used to join multiple tables [#29481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
    - Fix the issue that `TopN` is wrongly pushed down to `indexPlan` when `IndexScan` is using a prefix index [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)
    - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with `DOUBLE` type auto-increment columns causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC replication task might terminate when the upstream TiDB instance unexpectedly exits [#3061](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3061)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC process might panic when TiKV sends duplicate requests to the same Region [#2386](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2386)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)
        - Fix tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keep firing when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2978)
        - (dup) Fix the issue that some partitioned tables without valid indexes might be ignored when `force-replicate` is enabled [#2834](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2834)
        - Fix memory leak which may happen in create new changefeed [#2389](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2389)

>         - Set config.Metadata.Timeout correctly to prevent stuck data synchronization [#3539](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3539)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release date: December 17, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

## Compatibility changes

+ TiKV

    - Before v4.0.16, when TiDB converts an illegal UTF-8 string to a Real type, an error is reported directly. Starting from v4.0.16, TiDB processes the conversion according to the legal UTF-8 prefix in the string [#11466](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11466)

+ Tools

    + TiCDC

        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `max-message-bytes` to 1 MB to prevent TiCDC from sending too large messages to Kafka clusters [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)
        - Change the default value of Kafka Sink `partition-num` to 3 so that TiCDC distributes messages across Kafka partitions more evenly [#3337](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3337)

## Improvements

+ TiKV

>     - Reduce the disk space usage by using the zstd algorithm to compress SST files when using Backup & Restore to restore data or using TiDB Lightning's Local-backend [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Reduce disk space consumption by adopting the zstd algorithm to compress SST files when restoring data by using Backup & Restore or importing data by using Local-backend of TiDB Lightning [#11469](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11469)
```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Improve the robustness of restoring [#27421](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/27421)

    + TiCDC

        - Add a tick frequency limit to EtcdWorker to prevent frequent etcd writes from affecting PD services [#3112](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3112)
        - Optimize rate limiting control on TiKV reloads to reduce gPRC congestion during changefeed initialization [#3110](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3110)

+ Grafana

    - Upgrade to v7.5.11 to avoid security vulnerabilities of earlier versions

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix the query panic caused by overflow in the statistics module when converting a range to points for cost estimation [#23625](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23625)
    - Fix wrong results of the control functions (such as `IF` and `CASE WHEN`) when using the `ENUM` type data as parameters of such functions [#23114](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/23114)
    - Fix the issue that the `GREATEST` function returns inconsistent results due to different values of `tidb_enable_vectorized_expression` (`on` or `off`)

>     - Fix the panic when applying index join on prefix indexes in some cases [#24547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24547)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the `Index Join` panic in some cases when using prefix indexes [#24547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/24547)
```

Reviewer 5: @tiancaiamao PTAL. Thanks.

    - Fix the issue that planner might cache invalid plans for `join` in some cases [#28087](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28087)
    - Fix a bug that TiDB cannot insert `null` into a non-null column when `sql_mode` is empty [#11648](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/11648)

>     - Fix the wrong result type of the `GREATEST` and`LEAST` functions [#29019](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29019)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the wrong type of the values returned by the `GREATEST` and `LEAST` functions [#29019](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29019)
```

Reviewer 5: @tiancaiamao PTAL. Thanks.

    - Fix wrong results of the `microsecond` function in vectorized expressions [#29244](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29244)
    - Fix wrong results of the `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28643](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/28643)
    - Fix the issue that optimistic transaction conflicts might cause transactions to block each other [#11148](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11148)
    - Fix the issue of incomplete log information from the `auto analyze` result [#29188](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29188)
    - Fix the issue that using an invalid default date does not report an error when the `SQL_MODE` is 'NO_ZERO_IN_DATE' [#26766](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26766)
    - Fix the issue that the Coprocessor Cache panel in Grafana does not display metrics. Now, Grafana displays the number of `hits`/`miss`/`evict` [#26338](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26338)
    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition causes DDL statements to stuck [#26229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/26229)

>     - Fix the issue that when the `CONCAT` function has a negative float type argument, the last digit of the argument number is chopped in the result [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the length information is wrong when converting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)
```

    - Fix the issue of an extra column in the query result when `NATURAL JOIN` is used to join multiple tables [#29481](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29481)
    - Fix the issue that `TopN` is wrongly pushed down to `indexPlan` when `IndexScan` uses a prefix index [#29711](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29711)

>     - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with the auto-increment columns of `DOUBLE` type causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)

Reviewer 9: s/data error/data corruption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with the auto-increment columns of `DOUBLE` type causes data corruption [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
```

>     - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with the auto-increment columns of  `DOUBLE` type causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with the auto-increment columns of `DOUBLE` type causes data error [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)
```

>     - Fix the issue that retrying transactions with the auto-increment columns of `DOUBLE` type causes data corruption [#29892](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29892)

Reviewer 10: - Fix the issue that length information is wrong when converting `Decimal` to `String` [#29417](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/29417)

        - Fix the issue that the volume of Kafka messages generated by TiCDC is not constrained by `max-message-size` [#2962](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2962)
        - Fix the issue that `tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m` keeps alerting when there is no changefeed [#11017](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/11017)
        - Fix the issue that TiCDC sync task might pause when an error occurs during writing a Kafka message [#2978](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2978)
        - Fix the issue that some partitioned tables without valid indexes might be ignored when `force-replicate` is enabled [#2834](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2834)
        - Fix the memory leak issue when creating a new changefeed [#2389](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2389)
        - Fix the issue that might cause inconsistent data due to Sink components advancing resolved ts early [#3503](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3503)
        - Fix the issue that scanning stock data might fail due to TiKV performing GC when scanning stock data takes too long [#2470](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2470)

>         - Fix the issue that the changefeed update command does not recognize global command line parameters [#2803](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2803)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that the changefeed update command does not recognize global command line parameters [#2803](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/2803)
        - Fix the issue that operations contained in a transaction exceeded the limit of PD's etcd when there are many changefeeds [#3615](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/issues/3615)
```

        - Fix fallback resolvedTs event will block the progress of resolve lock when occur region merging [#3099](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3099)
        - Close gPRC stream and re-create it when meeting `ErrPrewriteNotMatch` to avoid duplicated request error [#3094](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3094)
        - Fix kafka sink can not send message due to constraint by `max-message-size` option [#3046](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3046)
        - Fix tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keep firing when there is no changefeed [#3023](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3023)
        - Fix possible deadlocking when Kafka producer reports an error [#3015](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3015)
        - Fix dml is not replicated after adding partition in partition table without valid index [#2863](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2863)
        - Fix memory leak which may happen in create new changefeed [#2623](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2623)
        - Set config.Metadata.Timeout correctly to prevent stuck data synchronization [#3669](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3669)

## Critical bug not obtained through tools

> + TiDB

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ TiDB

    - expression: fix wrong flen when cast decimal to string. [#30012](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30012)

    - planner: change redundantSchema to fullSchema to correctly handle natural and "using" joins. [#30037](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30037)

    - planner: fix topn wrongly pushed to index scan side when it's a prefix index [#29796](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29796)
```

Reviewer 9: LGTM

Reviewer 3: @tiancaiamao Where should we put them? Under Bug fixes? Could you please help add the Chinese version? Thanks.

+ TiKV

> + Tools

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ Tools

    + TiCDC
    
            - processor,sink(cdc): let sink report resolved ts and do not skip buffer sink flush [#3561](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3561)

        - insert: fix the auto id retry won't cast the datum to origin type. [#30019](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30019)
```

Reviewer 4: LGTM

Reviewer 3: > 

Does it belong to bug fixes? Could you help polish the expression and add the Chinese version? Thanks.

Reviewer: @shichun-0415 We found it as a critical bug. It definitely belongs to bug fix.

Reviewer 4: `让 Sink 组件在汇报 resoved ts 时不要跳过 flush 操作`

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release Date: December 10, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

## Compatibility change(s)

+ TiDB

+ TiKV

+ PD

+ TiFlash

+ Tools

## Feature enhancement(s)

+ TiDB

    - Fix wrong result type for greatest/least [#29911](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29911)
    - This is a fix for grant global level case in v4.0 and v5.0 [#29899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29899)
    - Prevent conflicted optimistic transactions from locking each other. [#29775](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29775)
    - Fix panic for caseWhen function with enum type [#29508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29508)
    - Fix wrong result of microsecond function in vectorized [#29384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29384)
    - Fix incomplete log information about auto analyze. [#29227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29227)
    - Fix wrong result of hour function in vectorized expression [#28870](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28870)

>     - None. [#27926](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27926)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix incorrect by-instance gRPC average duration. [#11326](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11326)
    - Fix CDC panic due to missing downstream. [#11135](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11135)
    - Fix frequent CDC incremental scan retry due to `Congest` error. [#11089](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11089)
    - fix channel full could break the raft connection [#11069](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11069)
    - Database restored from BR or Lightning Local-backend is now smaller, should be matching the original cluster size when backed up. [#10642](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10642)
    - [#10616](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10616)
    - [#9870](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/9870)

+ PD

    - Should break the suspect region range loop when checker is busy [#4339](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4339)
    - [#4292](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4292)
    - Speed scheduler exit [#4200](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4200)

+ TiFlash

+ Tools

    + BR

        - Increase the robustness for restoring. [#1445](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1445)

    + TiCDC

>         - Please add a release note. If you don't think this PR needs a release note then fill it with `None`. [#3565](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3565)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

        - Fix changefeed checkpoint lag negative value error [#3532](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3532)
        - Fix OOM in container environments. [#3440](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3440)
        - Show changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#3313](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3313)
        - Fix a bug that TiCDC could meet replication interruption when multiple TiKVs crash or forcing restart. [#3290](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3290)
        - Fix memory leak after processing DDLs. [#3274](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3274)

>         - Please add a release note. If you don't think this PR needs a release note then fill it with `None`. [#3267](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3267)

Reviewer: @asddongmen

>         - `None`. [#3210](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3210)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>         - Please add a release note. If you don't think this PR needs a release note then fill it with `None`. [#3176](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3176)

Reviewer: @3AceShowHand

        - bugfix: fix changefeed does not fast fail when occur ErrGCTTLExceeded error. [#3134](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3134)
        - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads and fix the congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization phase. [#3131](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3131)
        - change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3106](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3106)
        - fix the bug that fallback resolvedTs event  will block the progress of resolve lock when occur region merging [#3099](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3099)
        - Close gPRC stream and re-create it when meeting `ErrPrewriteNotMatch` to avoid duplicated request error [#3094](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3094)
        - fix kafka sink can not send message due to constraint by `max-message-size` option. [#3046](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3046)

>         - Nond [#3042](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3042)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL. [#26237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26237)

+ TiKV

    - Fix panic in rare conditions when merge, conf change and snapshot happen at the same time [#11509](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11509)
    - fix negative sign when decimal divide to zero [#11332](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11332)
    - Fix incorrect by-instance gRPC average duration. [#11326](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11326)
    - Fix CDC panic due to missing downstream. [#11135](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11135)
    - Fix frequent CDC incremental scan retry due to `Congest` error. [#11089](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11089)
    - fix channel full could break the raft connection [#11069](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/11069)
    - Database restored from BR or Lightning Local-backend is now smaller, should be matching the original cluster size when backed up. [#10642](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10642)
    - [#10616](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/10616)
    - [#9870](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/9870)

> + PD
> 
>     - should break the suspect region range loop when checker is busy [#4339](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4339)
>     - None. [#4292](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4292)
>     - speed scheduler exit [#4200](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4200)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
```

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Check step overflow when converting a range to points for estimation [#30017](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30017)
    - Fix wrong result for control function with enum type. [#30011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30011)
    - expression: fix different results for greatest when vectorized is off. [#29916](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29916)
    - Fix index join panic on prefix index on some cases [#29217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29217)
    - Planner: fix the issue that planner may cache invalid plans for joins in some cases [#28444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28444)
    - fix a bug that can not insert null into a not null column in the empty SQL mode [#27832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27832)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`. [#3365](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3365)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl` [#3209](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3209)

+ PD

>     - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in [#4378](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4378)
>     - Fix the issue that PD may not elect leader as soon as leader step down [#4219](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4219)
>     - `evict-leader-scheduler` supports schedule the regions with unhealthy peers. [#4133](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4133)

Reviewer 11: ```suggestion
    - Fix the panic issue after the TiKV node scales in. [#4378](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4378)
    - Fix the issue that PD may not elect a new leader as soon as the old leader steps down. [#4219](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4219)
    - `evict-leader-scheduler` supports scheduling the regions with unhealthy peers. [#4133](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4133)
```

> + Tools
> 
>     + BR
> 
>         - Increase the robustness for restoring. [#1445](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1445)
> 
>     + TiCDC
> 
>         - Fix changefeed checkpoint lag negative value error [#3532](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3532)
>         - Fix OOM in container environments. [#3440](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3440)
>         - Show changefeed checkepoint catch-up ETA in metrics. [#3313](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3313)
>         - Fix a bug that TiCDC could meet replication interruption when multiple TiKVs crash or forcing restart. [#3290](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3290)
>         - Fix memory leak after processing DDLs. [#3274](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3274)
>         - Please add a release note. If you don't think this PR needs a release note then fill it with `None`. [#3267](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3267)
>         - [#3210](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3210)
>         - Please add a release note. If you don't think this PR needs a release note then fill it with `None`. [#3176](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3176)
>         - bugfix: fix changefeed does not fast fail when occur ErrGCTTLExceeded error. [#3134](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3134)
>         - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads and fix the congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization phase. [#3131](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3131)
>         - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3106](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3106)
>         - Fix the bug that fallback resolvedTs event  will block the progress of resolve lock when occur region merging [#3099](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3099)
>         - Close gPRC stream and re-create it when meeting `ErrPrewriteNotMatch` to avoid duplicated request error [#3094](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3094)
>         - Fix kafka sink can not send message due to constraint by `max-message-size` option. [#3046](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3046)
>         - Add metrics to observe incremental scan remaining time [#3032](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3032)
>         - Fix tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keep firing when there is no changefeed. [#3023](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3023)
>         - Fix possible deadlocking when Kafka producer reports an error. [#3015](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3015)
>         - Release new owner and processor implementation to release-5.0.
>         - Highly available model and core modules refactoring.[#1927](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/1927) [#3014](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3014)
>         - Ignore the global flag for changefeed update command. [#2875](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2875)
>         - Fix dml is not replicated after adding partition in partition table without valid index [#2863](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2863)
>         - Extend creating service gc safepoint ttl to 1 hr to support creating changefeeds that needs long initialization time. [#2851](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2851)
>         - Fix memory leak which may happen in create new changefeed. [#2623](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2623)
>         - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions [#2601](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2601)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Improvements
+ Tools

    + BR

        - Increase the robustness for restoring. [#1445](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/1445)
  
    + TiCDC
        - Add rate limiter to limit EtcdWorker tick frequency. [#3267](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3267)
        - Optimize the rate limit control when TiKV reloads and fix the congestion in gPRC, which may cause slow initialization phase. [#3131](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3131)
        - Change Kafka sink default `MaxMessageBytes` to 1MB. [#3106](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3106)
        - Ignore the global flag for changefeed update command. [#2875](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2875)
        - Extend creating service gc safepoint ttl to 1 hr to support creating changefeeds that needs long initialization time. [#2851](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2851)
        - Prohibit operating TiCDC clusters across major and minor versions. [#2601](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2601)

## Bug Fixes
+ Tools

    + TiCDC
        - Fix changefeed checkpoint lag negative value error. [#3532](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3532) 
        - Fix OOM in container environments. [#3440](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3440)
        - Fix TiCDC could meet replication interruption when multiple TiKVs crash or forcing restart. [#3290](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3290)  
        - Fix memory leak after processing DDLs. [#3274](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3274)
        - Fix changefeed does not fast fail when occur ErrGCTTLExceeded error. [#3134](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3134)  
        - Fix fallback resolvedTs event will block the progress of resolve lock when occur region merging. [#3099](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3099)
        - Close gPRC stream and re-create it when meeting `ErrPrewriteNotMatch` to avoid duplicated request error [#3094](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3094)
        - Fix kafka sink can not send message due to constraint by `max-message-size` option. [#3046](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3046)
        - Fix tikv_cdc_min_resolved_ts_no_change_for_1m keep firing when there is no changefeed. [#3023](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3023)
        - Fix possible deadlocking when Kafka producer reports an error. [#3015](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/3015)
        - Fix dml is not replicated after adding partition in partition table without valid index. [#2863](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2863)
        - Fix memory leak which may happen in create new changefeed. [#2623](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/2623)
```

---
title: TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.16 Release Notes

Release Date: December 10, 2021

TiDB version: 4.0.16

> ## Bug Fixes
> 
> + TiDB
> 
>     - Check step overflow when converting a range to points for estimation [#30017](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30017)
>     - Fix wrong result for control function with enum type. [#30011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30011)
>     - expression: fix different results for greatest when vectorized is off. [#29916](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29916)
>     - Fix index join panic on prefix index on some cases [#29217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29217)
>     - Planner: fix the issue that planner may cache invalid plans for joins in some cases [#28444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28444)
>     - fix a bug that can not insert null into a not null column in the empty SQL mode [#27832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27832)
> 
> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`. [#3365](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3365)
>     - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl` [#3209](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3209)
> 
> + PD
> 
>     - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in [#4378](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4378)
>     - Fix the issue that PD may not elect leader as soon as leader step down [#4219](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4219)
>     - `evict-leader-scheduler` supports schedule the regions with unhealthy peers. [#4133](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4133)
> 
> ## __unsorted
> 
> + TiDB
> 
>     - Fix wrong result type for greatest/least [#29911](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29911)
>     - This is a fix for grant global level case in v4.0 and v5.0 [#29899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29899)
>     - Prevent conflicted optimistic transactions from locking each other. [#29775](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29775)
>     - Fix panic for caseWhen function with enum type [#29508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29508)
>     - Fix wrong result of microsecond function in vectorized [#29384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29384)
>     - Fix incomplete log information about auto analyze. [#29227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29227)
>     - Fix wrong result of hour function in vectorized expression [#28870](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28870)
>     - Fix an issue that NO_ZERO_IN_DATE does not work on the default values. [#26902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26902)
>     - Fix copt-cache metrics, it will display the number of  hits/miss/evict on Grafana. [#26342](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26342)
>     - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL. [#26237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26237)

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Fix a query panic caused by overflow in statistics module when calculating selectivity and converting a range to points for cost estimation [#30017](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30017)
    - Fix wrong result for control function (`if`, `case when`, etc) with enum type. [#30011](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/30011)
    - Fix different results for function `greatest` when vectorized is off. [#29916](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29916)
    - Fix index join panic on prefix index on some cases [#29217](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29217)
    - Fix a bug that planner may cache invalid plans for joins in some cases [#28444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28444)
    - Fix a bug that TiDB can not insert null into a not null column when `sql_mode` is empty [#27832](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/27832)
    - Fix wrong result type for function `greatest`/`least` [#29911](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29911)
    - Fix privilege checking for `grant` and `revoke` operation on global level privileges [#29899](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29899)
    - Fix panic for `case when` function with enum type [#29508](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29508)
    - Fix wrong result of `microsecond` function in vectorized expression [#29384](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29384)
    - Fix wrong result of `hour` function in vectorized expression [#28870](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/28870)
    - Prevent conflicted optimistic transactions from locking each other. [#29775](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29775)
    - Fix incomplete log information about auto analyze. [#29227](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/29227)
    - Fix an issue that `NO_ZERO_IN_DATE` does not work on the default values. [#26902](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26902)
    - Fix copt-cache metrics, it will display the number of hits/miss/evict on Grafana now. [#26342](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26342)
    - Fix the issue that concurrently truncating the same partition hangs DDL. [#26237](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/26237)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the issue that comparison between Decimal may cause overflow and report `Can't compare`. [#3365](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3365)
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash fails to start up under platform without library `nsl` [#3209](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/3209)

+ PD

    - Fix panic issue after TiKV node scales in [#4378](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4378)
    - Fix the issue that PD may not elect leader as soon as leader step down [#4219](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4219)
    - `evict-leader-scheduler` supports schedule the regions with unhealthy peers. [#4133](https://github.com/tikv/pd/pull/4133)

## __unsorted
```

Reviewer 9: TiDB `__unsorted` part are moved to Bug fixes and tiny change of wording

Reviewer 3: > 

Could you please synchronize these changes to the Chinese release notes (https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/7836) as well? Thanks.

Reviewer 9: Done https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/7836#discussion_r763702484
